---
layout: default
title: Timeline
---

# A Timeline

I've been meaning to write something like this up for a long time. *The Solar Cycle* by Gene Wolfe is a story that has always been festering in some recess of my mind like a violent tapeworm refusing to leave, every so often reminding some infected neuron of its presence. I do believe, however, this is the greatest and most complex story ever written, and I will return to it every few years, probably until I die. Here is my attempt to chronicle the timeline in full, as understanding which events are important, and in which order those important events occur is, tautologically, of utmost importance. 

This is not intended to be a compendium of every detail across all twelve books, in fact it should be far from it. For example, Severian's visit to the jungle hut (Shadow, XXI) or the mystery of Marble's trunk (Caldé, V) are not among the most crucial plot points with respect to the broad strokes of the complete story. Fittingly, this reminds me of a moment towards the end of *Exodus from the Long Sun*; Silk has a brief suicidal crisis as he realizes the political disputes between the city-states of the Whorl are ultimately trivial when weighed against the destiny of humankind.

This is a very, very difficult task. I'll begin:

## 1: Humanity before *Book of the New Sun*

## 2: Severian

## 3: The Hieros and The New Sun

## 4: The Plan of Pas

## 5: Frozen Embryos, Cloning, and Possession

## 6: Silk's Enlightenment

## 7: Yesod

## 8: The Exodus to Blue and Green

## 9: Horn and the Pit

## 10: Quetzal, The Inhumi, Trees, The Neighbors, and The Vanished People

## 11: Soul Transfer

## 12: Urth
