---
layout: default
title: "Hammers"
---

# Hammers
:big(I):t is often said that when you wield a hammer, everything begins to look like a nail. Indeed, starting a personal website is one such way to pick up a hammer, and yet (perhaps due to my own ineptitude or general lack of imagination) I am really struggling to find nails.

However, I will force myself to write of anything I find of note. That way, a more educated, more worldly, more cultured, more beloved me can find a useful reference, or perhaps more likely laugh at the [Rube Goldberg machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rube_Goldberg_machine) so created to accomplish what may be a very straightforward task. Or this all becomes completely irrelevant due to [*The Singularity*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technological_singularity). I hope not.

## World's Smallest Nail

:big(T):he first nail bludgeoned by my oh-so-mighty [Mjölnir](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mj%C3%B6lnir) is a small annoyance that came up again and again when beginning development of this site. This is most likely not an issue for many, because as I understand it, most "people" are completely insane and are fine with twenty or more tabs open at once. Meanwhile I, a patrician, do not like having more than two or three open at any given time. This is similarly the case for running applications. When I am done with an app, I instinctively force quit it. 

So, as a Jekyll noob, when initially spinning up my server on `localhost:4000` with the absolutely terrible to type `bundle exec jekyll serve --livereload`, I was frustrated when it locks use of the terminal until the process is killed. Yes, I do use [ITerm2](https://iterm2.com/) like a functioning human being, but I do not like ⌘T-ing and ⌘W-ing all the time. I want all my work in one place.

I find the [ROI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Return_on_investment) of writing a ~10-line bash script to manage processes... unbelievably high. I tend to name them either `run` or `serve` depending on the use-case, in this case I went with `serve`. Perhaps the script has grown by the time I look back on this page in the future, but as I write, it is simply:

```bash
# !/bin/bash
pkill -f jekyll
[ "$1" = "stop" ] && { echo "Server stopped"; exit 0; }
[ "$1" = "restart" ] && sleep 1 && $0 && { echo "Server restarted"; exit 0; }
[ -f logs/latest.log ] && mv logs/latest.log logs/$(date -r logs/latest.log +%Y%m%d_%H%M%S).log
bundle exec jekyll serve --livereload > logs/latest.log 2>&1 & echo "Server Started: http://localhost:4000"
```

After a simple `chmod +x serve`, I can run `./serve` to start the server, `./serve stop` to stop the server, or `./serve restart` to restart the server, while maintaining full control of my terminal. 

Line 5 uses a trick I use often when managing the organization of logfiles. On process start, we make a brand new `latest.log` while also copying the old `latest.log` to `<timestamp>.log`. The timestamp is calculated using the built-in [`date -r`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/date.1.html), which retrieves the modification date of the file.