---
layout: default
title: "[Puzzle #71] Crypto Rotating Japanese Pentopia with Skyscrapers"
---

*This puzzle was created as a birthday gift.* 

# Crypto Rotating Japanese Pentopia with Skyscrapers

## Rules:

Place the numbers from 1 to 9 in some cells such that no number repeats in a row or column. Clues above and to the left of the grid indicate the sums of connected groups of numbers in the respective row or column, in order, where empty cells serve as delimiters between groups.

The letters A to I replace numbers from 0 to 9, and no two letters may replace the same number. A question mark can be any number from 0 to 9, and for all clues, none may have a leading zero. 

### Rotating Pentopia:

Some of the empty cells form pentominos: orthogonally connected groups of exactly five empty cells. No pentomino shape may repeat, including rotations and reflections. A cell with an arrow or arrows is never empty, and a number N placed on such a cell rotates the clue by 45N degrees clockwise. After rotation, if the clue is aligned orthogonally, the clue indicates in which orthogonal directions are the nearest pentominos. Likewise, if the clue ends up aligned diagonally, the clue indicates in which diagonal directions are the nearest pentominos.

### Skyscrapers:

Treat each number N as a building of height N. Clues below and to the right of the grid indicate the number of buildings seen from from that direction, where taller buildings hide shorter buildings.

[penpa+](https://tinyurl.com/2245er3t)
